### **Dashboard Personal Expenses**

This small app is a dashboard that allows user to have an overview of his/her personal expenses. App has been deployed [here](https://cfcosta-dashboard-personal-expense.streamlit.app/).

#### **App Overview**

- On top, user can upload his/her own dataset. A template csv file can be downloaded via the download button

- The app is composed by two main tabs: The first shows the evolution of the total financial assets over time, and the second is a record of income and expenses.

- In the **Evolution of Assets** tab, it is possible to find an area chart with the daily evolution, a bar chart with the monthly evolution, a bar chart with the yearly evolution, and the correspondent datasets.

- In the bottom, the **Raw Data** dataset contains the dataframe that sustains this tab of the app.

- In the **Record of Income and Expenses** tab, it is possible to find an overview of the income and expenses.

- **Income** contains 1) a pie chart/dataframe that represents the weight of each income source in the total income, and 2) the same data sectioned by year.

- **Expenses by Main Category** contains 1) a pie chart/dataframe that represents the weight of each main category of expenses in the total expenses, 2) the same data sectioned by year, and 3) the same analysis but with the expenses aggregated depending whether they are essential or not. In the third tab, user should define what categories he/she consider essential.

- **Expenses by Secondary Category** contains a bar chart/dataframe that represents the absolute value spent in each secondary category of expenses.

- **Fragmentation of Primary Categories** contains a pie chart/dataframe that represents the weight of each secondary category of expenses in the total value spent on the given primary categories. The filter is defined by the user.

- **Raw Data - List of All Inputs** is a dataframe with all the individual expenses

#### **App Building**

- For demonstration, a demo dataset generated by ChatGPT and manually adapted was used. The CSV file is found in the main folder under the name `demo_raw_data_personal_expenses`.

- Basic manipulations functions are kept in an apart script (called `data_wrangling_methods.py`).

- The `dashboard.py` file in **streamlit_dashboard** folder contains the script used to mount the dashboard on Streamlit. Plots were built using the matplotlib package. Additionally, an automatic launcher executable file was generated using the pyinstaller package: `dashboard_launch_app.exe` , present in the main folder. With it, the user can open the dashboard automatically without the need of a terminal or an IDE.
________________

#### **Contacts**

🔸 **Email**: claudiofcosta@live.com.pt

🔹 **LinkedIn**: [linkedin.com/claudiofcosta](https://www.linkedin.com/in/claudiofcosta/)
